and we found them in a room of some lady
we knew was already not doing well and
he was laying next to her bed and just
like laying there you ever done that
before
no he usually followed all the nurses in
and out and would go into rooms and look
the wheelchairs and things we never just
saw him just sitting there
we didn't think too much about it she
died a couple days later but he stayed
there really by her bedside it took a
few times for this to happen and then we
figured out that something was going on
okay
could it be that scamp was
unintentionally praised when he detected
his first death and that this encouraged
him to continue the behavior the one
theory would be what's called one trial
learning so if in that one trial the
result back to the dog is significant
enough he remembers that the rest of his
life that could be what's happening with
scams so the very first time he detected
a significant pheromone change in a
human being if the response he got from
the surrounding staff was significant
enough to reinforce that a very high
level could explain why he started this
behavior and why he continues it like
scamp AJ a golden retriever is able to
respond to tiny changes in the human
body
but unlike scamp he has been trained to
do it
his owner Tony Browne Griffin is nearly
blind she also suffers from chronic
epilepsy AJ is her lifeline to the
outside world
not only is he her guide dog he is also
trained to alert to an imminent seizure
he raises the alarm forty minutes
beforehand which gives Tony enough time
to make herself safe and avoid injury
when AJ's alerted to a major seizure he
licks obsessively at my left hand almost
as if it's covered in something like
cream cheese or butter if I was to
ignore him he'd be very very insistent
until I'd got the message chaos couldn't
happen around him but all he's got his
eyes for me and the fact that he wants
me to be safe Tony makes sure AJ has
plenty of downtime to play with his
friends but even then he's still on
standby when he's off running around
doing his doggie thing he does still
alert me he'll come back and sniff me
and sometimes he decides that I'm fine
and other times he'll come back and
sniff me and decide that the seizure is
imminent and that I need to be told Tony
is a full-time mum to her two young
children no matter where she is in the
house AJ stays by her side 24 hours a
day even in the middle of the night when
he's fast asleep snoring on his back
with his legs in the air he'll suddenly
get up and come over and sniff me and
and nudge me and let me know that I'm
gonna have a seizure so he will steal AJ
is Tony's third seizure alert doc all of
them have given her exactly the same
warning they sniff my left hand or look
at my left hand and then they've stared
at me so I'd I'm a strong believer that
it is something that my body is telling
them